# Test the Date class

Implement a class `Date` with the interface shown below:

```java
class Date implements Comparable<Date> {

    public Date(int day, int month, int year) { ... }

    public static boolean isValidDate(int day, int month, int year) { ... }

    public static boolean isLeapYear(int year) { ... }

    public Date nextDate() { ... }

    public Date previousDate { ... }

    public int compareTo(Date other) { ... }

}
```

The constructor throws an exception if the three given integers do not form a valid date.

`isValidDate` returns `true` if the three integers form a valid year, otherwise `false`.

`isLeapYear` says if the given integer is a leap year.

`nextDate` returns a new `Date` instance representing the date of the following day.

`previousDate` returns a new `Date` instance representing the date of the previous day.

`compareTo` follows the `Comparable` convention:

* `date.compareTo(other)` returns a positive integer if `date` is posterior to `other`
* `date.compareTo(other)` returns a negative integer if `date` is anterior to `other`
* `date.compareTo(other)` returns `0` if `date` and `other` represent the same date.
* the method throws a `NullPointerException` if `other` is `null` 

Design and implement a test suite for this `Date` class.
You may use the test cases discussed in classes as a starting point. 
Also, feel free to add any extra method you may need to the `Date` class.


Use the following steps to design the test suite:

1. With the help of *Input Space Partitioning* design a set of initial test inputs for each method. Write below the characteristics and blocks you identified for each method. Specify which characteristics are common to more than one method.
2. Evaluate the statement coverage of the test cases designed in the previous step. If needed, add new test cases to increase the coverage. Describe below what you did in this step.
3. If you have in your code any predicate that uses more than two boolean operators check if the test cases written to far satisfy *Base Choice Coverage*. If needed add new test cases. Describe below how you evaluated the logic coverage and the new test cases you added.
4. Use PIT to evaluate the test suite you have so far. Describe below the mutation score and the live mutants. Add new test cases or refactor the existing ones to achieve a high mutation score.

Use the project in [tp3-date](../code/tp3-date) to complete this exercise.

## Answer

The code of the project for the exercise can be found in [tp3-date](../code/tp3-date).
1. As Blocks we found, there is first each method representing blocks (construxtor included). Then we can identify many blocks in each method : 
    for every method we must take care to test all the if/else statements and for each conditions we must check each boolean attribute used.
    In this exercise, there are other things to test :  
    the Exceptions. Indeed, we must check that at any time, no Exception is raised and that in some particular conditions, 
    some Exceptions must be raised.
2. Like in the previous exercise, there are some statements that were not tested so I needed to add tests in order to reach 100% of statement coverage.
3. Every predicates using  more than 2 booelean  operators are well tested already.
4. Using pit with maven we obtained a score of 93% of test Coverage as you can see below :  




<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css">
</head>
<body>

<h1>Pit Test Coverage Report</h1>

<h3>Project Summary</h3>
<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Number of Classes</th>
            <th>Line Coverage</th>
            <th>Mutation Coverage</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>1</td>
            <td>100% <div class="coverage_bar"><div class="coverage_complete width-100"></div><div class="coverage_legend">41/41</div></div></td>
            <td>93% <div class="coverage_bar"><div class="coverage_complete width-93"></div><div class="coverage_legend">71/76</div></div></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>


<h3>Breakdown by Package</h3>
<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Name</th>
            <th>Number of Classes</th>
            <th>Line Coverage</th>
            <th>Mutation Coverage</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td><a href="./fr.istic.vv/index.html">fr.istic.vv</a></td>
            <td>1</td>
            <td><div class="coverage_percentage">100% </div><div class="coverage_bar"><div class="coverage_complete width-100"></div><div class="coverage_legend">41/41</div></div></td>
            <td><div class="coverage_percentage">93% </div><div class="coverage_bar"><div class="coverage_complete width-93"></div><div class="coverage_legend">71/76</div></div></td>
        </tr>
     </tbody>
</table>
<br/>



<hr/>

Report generated by <a href='http://pitest.org'>PIT</a> 1.5.2

</body>
</html>
